App Configuration - Feature Flag (#31013)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/appconfiguration/feature-management/README.md

# Feature Management client library for Python

Feature Management is a library for enabling/disabling features at runtime. Developers can use feature flags in simple use cases like conditional statement to more advanced scenarios like conditionally adding routes.

## Getting started

### Install the package

> Install the Azure Feature Management client library for Python with [pip][pip]:

Author: Yes, but it will not exist until we do a release.

                "name": "MyFilter",
                "parameters": {
                    ...
                },
            }
        ]
    },
}
```

This object is passed into the `FeatureManager` when it is initialized.

### Feature Filters

A `FeatureFilter` is a class that can be used to enable/disable feature flags. By default two feature filters are provided:

- `Microsoft.TimeWindowFilter` - Enables a feature flag based on a time window.
- `Microsoft.TargetingFilter` - Enables a feature flag based on a list of users, groups, or rollout percentages.

#### Time Window Filter

The Time Window Filter enables a feature flag based on a time window. It has two parameters:

- `Start` - The start time of the time window.
- `End` - The end time of the time window.

```json
{
    "name": "Microsoft.TimeWindowFilter",
    "parameters": {
        "Start": "2020-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "End": "2020-12-31T00:00:00Z"
    }
}
```

Both fields are options, but at least one is required. The time window is enabled after the start time and before the end time. If the start time is not specified it is enabled until the end time. If the end time is not it is alway enabled after the start time.

> #### Targeting Filter

Author: Added a bit more. Is it good now?

#### Custom Filters

You can also create your own feature filters by implementing the `FeatureFilter` interface.

```python
class CustomFilter(FeatureFilter):
    def evaluate(self, context, **kwargs):
        ...
        return True
```

The `evaluate` method is called when checking if a feature flag is enabled. The `context` parameter contains information about the feature filter from the `parameters` field of the feature filter. Any additional parameters can be passed in as keyword arguments when calling `is_enabled`.

You can then pass your custom filter into the `FeatureManager` when it is initialized.

```json
{
    "name": "MyCustomFilter",
    "parameters": {
        ...
    }
}
```

`parameters` takes any additional parameters that are needed for the feature filter as a dictionary. These parameters are passed into the `evaluate` method.

> 

Reviewer: We need some documentation for requirement_type

Author: It is kept like this as Python is like DotNet and has issues loading the variable from the service. So, I have the code for it now, but we will not fully expose it till it can be use with the service.

# Is always true
print("Alpha is ", feature_manager.is_enabled("Alpha"))
```

NOTE: If no setting selector is set then feature flags with no label are loaded.

### Use feature flags from a json file

```python
from feature.management import FeatureManager
import json
import os
import sys

script_directory = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(sys.argv[0]))

f = open(script_directory + "/my_json_file.json", "r")

feature_flags = json.load(f)

feature_manager = FeatureManager(feature_flags)

# Is always true
print("Alpha is ", feature_manager.is_enabled("Alpha"))
```

### Use feature flags from a dictionary

```python
from feature.management import FeatureManager

feature_flags = {
    "FeatureFlags": [
        {"id": "Alpha", "enabled": "true"},
    ]
}

feature_manager = FeatureManager(feature_flags)

# Is always true
print("Alpha is ", feature_manager.is_enabled("Alpha"))
```

## Key concepts

### FeatureManager

The `FeatureManager` is the main entry point for using feature flags. It is initialized with a dictionary of feature flags, and optional feature filters. The `FeatureManager` can then be used to check if a feature is enabled or disabled.

### Feature Flags

> Feature Flags are objects that define how Feature Management enables/disables. It contains an `id` and `enabled` property. The `id` is a string that uniquely identifies the feature flag. The `enabled` property is a boolean that indicates if the feature flag is enabled or disabled. The `conditions` property is a list of `FeatureFilter` objects that are used to determine if the feature flag is enabled or disabled.

Reviewer: Feature Flags are objects that define how Feature Management enables/disables "a feature"?

> Feature Flags are objects that define how Feature Management enables/disables. It contains an `id` and `enabled` property. The `id` is a string that uniquely identifies the feature flag. The `enabled` property is a boolean that indicates if the feature flag is enabled or disabled. The `conditions` property is a list of `FeatureFilter` objects that are used to determine if the feature flag is enabled or disabled.

Reviewer: > The `conditions` property is a list of `FeatureFilter` objects?

Or is it an object that contains `client_filters` property, which is a list of `FeatureFilter` objects.

#### Targeting Filter

Targeting is a feature management strategy that enables developers to progressively roll out new features to their user base. The strategy is built on the concept of targeting a set of users known as the target audience. An audience is made up of specific users, groups, excluded users/groups, and a designated percentage of the entire user base. The groups that are included in the audience can be broken down further into percentages of their total members.

The following steps demonstrate an example of a progressive rollout for a new 'Beta' feature:

1. Individual users Jeff and Alicia are granted access to the Beta
1. Another user, Mark, asks to opt-in and is included.
1. Twenty percent of a group known as "Ring1" users are included in the Beta.
1. The number of "Ring1" users included in the beta is bumped up to 100 percent.
1. Five percent of the user base is included in the beta.
1. The rollout percentage is bumped up to 100 percent and the feature is completely rolled out.

> 1. This strategy for rolling out a feature is built in to the library through the included Microsoft.Targeting feature filter.

Reviewer: Not a part of the previous list

##### Defining a Targeting Feature Filter

> The Targeting Filter enables a feature flag based on a list of users, groups, or rollout percentages. It has a parameter:
> 
> - `Audience` - The audience of the feature flag.
> 
> Which contains the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Targeting Filter provides the capability to enable a feature for a target audience. The filter parameters include an `Audience` object which describes users, groups, excluded users/groups, and a default percentage of the user base that should have access to the feature. The `Audience` object contains the following fields:
```

Author: Merged this change in.

- `Users` - A list of users that the feature flag is enabled for.

> - `Groups` - A list of groups that the feature flag is enabled for, at different percentages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Groups` - A list of groups that the feature flag is enabled for and a rollout percentage for each group.
```

- `DefaultRolloutPercentage` - A percentage value that the feature flag is enabled for.

> - `Exclusions` - An object that contains a list of users and groups that the feature flag is disabled for.

Reviewer: Exclusion (singular)

```json
{
    "name": "Microsoft.TargetingFilter",

>     "parameters": {

Reviewer: Audience is missing from the example

Author: This should be fixed now, see the readme pr.

        "Users": ["user1", "user2"],
        "Groups": [
            {
                "Name": "group1",
                "RolloutPercentage": 100
            }
        ],
        "DefaultRolloutPercentage": 50,
        "Exclusion": {
            "Users": ["user3"],
            "Groups": ["group2"]
        }
    }
}
```

> The `Users` field is a list of strings that represent the users that the feature flag is enabled for. The `Groups` field is a list of objects that represent the groups that the feature flag is enabled for. The `Name` field is a string that represents the name of the group. The `RolloutPercentage` field is a number between 0 and 100 that represents the percentage of users in the group that the feature flag is enabled for. The `DefaultRolloutPercentage` field is a number between 0 and 100 that represents the percentage of users that the feature flag is enabled for if they are not in any of the groups. The `Exclusions` field is an object that contains a list of users and groups that the feature flag is disabled for. The `Users` field is a list of strings that represent the users that the feature flag is disabled for. The `Groups` field is a list of strings that represent the groups that the feature flag is disabled for.

Reviewer: This description could be split up and included with the previous list describing each parameter. Most of this information is already in that list.

Author: Done

#### Custom Filters

You can also create your own feature filters by implementing the `FeatureFilter` interface.

```python
class CustomFilter(FeatureFilter):
    def evaluate(self, context, **kwargs):
        ...
        return True
```

> The `evaluate` method is called when checking if a feature flag is enabled. The `context` parameter contains information about the feature filter from the `parameters` field of the feature filter. Any additional parameters can be passed in as keyword arguments when calling `is_enabled`.

Reviewer: >  Any additional parameters can be passed in as keyword arguments when calling `is_enabled`.

Did you mean - by calling `evaluate`?

Author: `evaluate` is the method named that `FeatureFilter`'s have. See `_featurefilters.py`

1. The number of "Ring1" users included in the beta is bumped up to 100 percent.
1. Five percent of the user base is included in the beta.

> 1. The rollout percentage is bumped up to 100 percent and the feature is completely rolled out.

Reviewer 2: All "1"?
